# 2. Learning to Drive

---

- first day to learn how to drive
  - driving constantly paying attention
  - making a little correction this way and that way
    - e.g. think about how Drones do hovering

## the Paradigm of XP

- Stay aware
- Adapt
- Change

Everything in software changes.

- Requirements change.
- The design changes.
- The business changes.

Changes are not problem. It is going to happen;
The real problem: _inability to cope with change_.

## Two Levels: the Driving Metaphor applies to XP

### 1. Team-driven development process

in short, team should find out frequent small correction by having short intervals.

- Customers drive content of the system
- The whole team drives the development process

XP: makes you adapt by making

- frequent, small corrections
- moving towards your goal with _deployed software at **short intervals**_
  - you don't wait a long time to find out if you were going the wrong way due to short intervals

### 2. Customer-driven development process

in short, customers should give a direction where to go and what's the next.

- customers drive content of the system
- Customers (internal/external) start with a general idea of what problems the system needs to solve
  - usually customers do not know about what the software should do
  - this is why software development is like driving
  - not like getting the car pointed straight down the road
- the customer in the team should care about:
  - where on the horizon they want to go
  - week-by-week
  - where the software should go _next_

### Summary

- team's value: different from
  - place to place
  - time to time
  - team to team

> Just as the customers steer the content of the system, the whole team steers the development process, beginning with its current set of practices.

- as development process continues
- team will become aware of
  - which of their practices enhance
  - which of their practices detract
- from their **goals**

key measures:

- effectiveness
- communication
- confidence
- productivity

---
